>> Brian Holt: I am not Jen.
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: [LAUGH] You probably
noticed that.
My name is Brian Holt, and I was making
this comment earlier to Jen that I feel
like I'm the bad cop of good cop,
bad cop here.
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: That you gotta learn this
awesome HTML, CSS stuff,
and the payoff for HTML and
CSS is very immediate, and
it's very gratifying up front, and
JavaScript is a little bit more
difficult to learn up front.
So just before we even get started here
I just want to give you permission to
feel like this is hard,
because it's kind of hard, and
when I say kind of hard
it's actually quite hard.
So, [LAUGH] if you're sitting
there despairing a little bit,
I guarantee you you're not
the only one feeling that way,
in fact your teacher might actually be
feeling that way at the same time too.
So, given all of that, just to give a bit
of an introduction, I am Brian Holt.
I am currently living in Seattle,
Washington.
This is my, I can't even count how many
times I've been back to Frontend Masters,
but umpteenth time back to
Frontend Masters, and I'm really,
really excited to be
teaching this bootcamp.
So, you can see here we're
on the course website here,
and we're gonna be starting here from
section 9: Programming Fundamentals.
So, we're gonna kind of switch
gears here a little bit.
We're gonna move from more of
the declarative nature, which means,
inform a computer, this is how this looks,
this is where this goes, to more of
what we call an imperative nature,
which is going to be telling
the computer how to do things.
We're going to be writing notes down that
the computer will then execute for us.
It's almost like writing an essay that
your computer knows how to execute.
>> Brian Holt: So, you can see
here I have this, what is code?
It's kind of a dumb question,
but it may surprise you.
So I actually stole this idea
from a different Frontend Masters
teacher who's name is Kyle Simpson,
who, after the bootcamp,
would be a very good teacher for
you to watch.
Code is for humans first, and
that kind of seems counter intuitive,
you would think well,
we're writing code so
that computers can execute this, so
why are we writing it for humans?
Well, in reality you never
write code just once, right?
In reality, when you're shipping code
at a company, you write code and
then you're gonna have to come back and
change it, and change it, and
change it again, and change it again.
And then there's gonna be a bug,
and you have to go fix it, and
then you're gonna have to
add more features, and so
you're gonna have to modify it,
and then the designers decided to
make this animate a different way, and
you have to go back and modify it again.
So in reality, the code that you
write is really for your future self.
It's for your future coworkers so
that they can go back in later,
understand what your intentions were, and
then be able to change that in order to
fix the bug, or change the feature,
or whatever that may be.
So, that being said, you always want
to write the most clear code possible.
If you have two choices of being clever
and terse, or being explicit and
verbose, always go with the ladder.
It's better to write more if
it's more understandable.
Always, always err on the side
of being more understandable.
When you have problems later then you can
go back and change it to be clever, but
for the most part,
you always want to be clear.
So that is what I am gonna try and teach
you today, and that's kind of something
that I want you to hold onto,
because it is a bit counter-intuitive.
We kind of want to play what's
referred to as code-golf,
how condensed can I get this?
Every character is another stroke, right,
so you want to get this down
to as small as possible.
In reality that's, as your future
possible coworker, don't do that, please.
[LAUGH] Please, write clear code.
So that's what I want to get into.
It's worth sitting down and
taking the time to write clear code.